# What's Next For Me

This article is nominally about what I'm looking for in my next gig but it's also about my 5 year plan. 

"Where do you see yourself in 5 years?"

It's one of those bullshit questions that I cringe at. Thankfully, I don't get it as often anymore, whether that's because of my seniority, or maybe it's due to being more confident about who I am and what my skills are. I don't wonder if I'm a designer or developer, UX or UI, or whether I'm any good at what I do.

The ones that trip me up are about "soft skills" like handling disagreements or encouraging collaboration. Which brings me to the things that I want to improve in the near future and how those skills will help me with longer term goals.

I want to become a design manager and lead a team of designers, while remaining active as an individual contributor and retaining product ownership.

The goal isn't just to manage designers or make a splash about doing so - although I think that's also good and I feel a need to brand my approach, like "startup design" or something - but it's also to continue to level up my involvement in product strategy and oversee a portfolio of product work, not just a single pipeline.

That means a gig that starts out as a strong overall IC and supports candid reflective writing about the industry as a whole, as well as the lifestyle balance it takes to mentor outside of work. Then eventually, those mentorship opportunities move in-house as I build out a team in my image, with my philosophy of well-rounded and proactive designers.

Dude, be proactive and start scouting designers already. Aaron's one you've worked with before but also fits the mold of what you're looking for: raw talent, remote, benefits from coaching, and just a good person.

And don't look for just individuals, you can create a moodboard of types. Illustrators, animators, videographers like Scoutlightback... what does Al's Avengers look like?

What kind of soft skills would you develop by doing this? Executive coaching, GTD courses, etc. What kind of courses could you develop in kind? How To Build A Startup Design Team.

Oooo, you could document this shit and REALLY MAKE A FUCKING SPLASH.

---

Aside: if a company thinks it's imperative to have a PM babysit a senior designer - cough excuse me "pair with a designer" - it's either because: the designer isn't good enough to lead the team on their own, lacking skills in either people management, raw design output, or product strategy; the product is technical enough that it needs someone equally technical to wield the scope hammer and push back on requirements; or because the org is so political it prioritizes process over product and needs an equally political creature to navigate the swamp of meetings, red tape, and consensus-building that drown out experimental thinking in favor of groupthink. This is also known as The Facebook Problem.

I used to think that startups were inherently immune to these conditions because they were smaller and more nimble about existential threats, but I'm not sure that's true anymore. Startups can practice self-harm just as well as any Dilbert cartoon and the safety comes in numbers of the overall herd, not correct decisions by any one individual company.

In other words, plentiful funding and the enticing dream of startups overcomes the high level of churn and burnout the same way that the movie and game industry do: sucking in new talent by the ton and lots of promiscous job hopping by vets.

So! What does an org look like that doesn't fall into those traps? What is the dream of design-driven humane software?

---