# What's Next For Me... And Tech

This article was supposed to be about what I'm looking for in my next gig but instead it ended up being more about this industry: where we are right now and where we're going.

It's not new for me to be reflective like this but it's definitely not like me to step back and make plans, let alone announce them to anyone else. I've always been more of a "go with the flow" kind of guy and still basically am. Because it's worked well! I couldn't have planned the career I have because it didn't even really exist when I started out, so it's good to be flexible in your career because of the inherently high rate of change in our industry.

However, the web isn't new anymore and neither are startups. Highly commercialized versions of both have been around for decades and things are now settling into long term patterns. There will always be room for innovation and creativity within the ad hoc "rules" and the wild west frontier will find new areas to move on to, like crypto or AI, but the war to mainstream tech into our culture has been won. The question is no longer whether software will eat the world but whether it will be good stewards of it: who will it empower vs displace, does it heal or widen the economic and cultural divides, etc.

Whoa, this has all gotten really meta. What does it have to do with my next gig?

Well, all I'm really saying is that we're still in the early innings of this game. Nothing is finished, everything is beginning. Rules don't have to kill experimenation and discovery, they're the guiderails for creativity to operate against and a necessary evil for making sense of the patterns of behavior in large populations.

Things get standardized and *then* they really start to take off.

So whenever I feel nostalgic about the early web or down about the prospects of fitting into this more regimented new world order, I remind myself of Walt Disney's life story. The greatest animator of all time - the man so influential that he is synonmous with the creation of the industry itself in the public eye, the way that Stan Lee = comics or Steve Jobs = tech - this titan of a man showed up in Hollywood and was promptly depressed, thinking he was ten years too late and had missed the boat on the animation wave. And this wasn't just in his mind, he couldn't land a job as a director and no one would hire him. *That's* why he started making his own stuff.

So whenever I feel like tech is too far gone, the spark is lost, it's all been stamped into the same mold, I remember Walt's story. I tell myself "tech is just getting started and there's a long way to go. Why throw away all this valuable experience and burn out or start over somewhere?"

Maybe I do need more variety in my life, like that Sarah Turnbull or what's her name from Stanford that changed careers so many times, true, but the fact is that startups and tech let me be like a character actor that likes the change genres of film. I don't have to start a new career, I just have to gently guide where this one is going rather than riding it blindly to the next destination.

So! Where to go from here? I don't know and that's the beauty of it.

I started out this essay talking about my plan for the future. Well here it is: hang in there. Recharge the batteries. Remember who you're doing it for. And remember to play.